---
title: Event Management
description: Developer stream of thought for implementing event control mechanisms.
category: Research
version: 1.0
---

Describing a non-recurring event is as simple as providing a start and end:

- `dtstart` the starting date and time of an event.
- `dtend` the ending date and time of an event.

This document seeks to uncover the descriptors required when dealing with recurring events as well as coming up with ideas for a set of data-transfer-objects (DTOs) to describing the creation and updating of said events.

## Recurring Event Requirements

In order to have a recurring event, the application requires a recurrence rule or rrule. The application as of writing this supports recurring events that are non-infinite, as well as a fidelity of one event per day, aka not supporting hourly, minutely, secondly, ...etc patterns.

The most basic of rrules require two pieces of information:

1. The `dtstart` starting date and time of the recurrence.
2. A means of ending the recurrence pattern using either a date and time (`until`) or a specific number of instances (`count`).

A generated rrule is a list of dates, and for our use-case, the starting date and time of each event in the recurrence. This means the ending date and time of each event needs to be derived elsewhere.

## Describing Single & Recurring Events

Coalesced behaviors:

1. There times when the two `dtstart` dates should be the same and times they shouldn't.
   - Both `dtstart`s should be the same when creating a new recurring event to prevent generating a recurrence with an event that isn't part of the recurrence itself.
   - Changing the `dtstart` of the rrule

## Supported Procedures

1. Creating a non-recurring event using a `dtstart` and `dtend`.
2. Creating a recurring event by

## Permutations

1. Non-repeating event
   - `dtstart` starting date and time
   - `dtend` ending date and time
2. Repeating events [INTERVAL(default=1), UNTIL or COUNT]

   - `dtstart` - start of the recurrence.
   - `interval` - spacing between occurrences by `freq`, default of 1.
   - `freq` - frequency of iteration
     - `DAILY`
     - `WEEKLY` - Optional `BYWEEKDAY` as (ARRAY of MONDAY=0 to SUNDAY=6)
     - `MONTHLY` - Either `BYMONTHDAY` (X day of month) or `BYSETPOS` (Xth weekday of month).
     - `YEARLY`
   - `until` - inclusive limit of the recurrence; required if not using `count`.
   - `count` - occurrences to generate; required if not using `until`.

### Special Considerations

- [Monday, Sept 20th, WEEKLY, BYWEEKDAY[Tue, Wed]]

```Javascript
new RRule({
  freq: RRule.WEEKLY,
  dtstart: new Date(Date.UTC(2021, 8, 20, 0, 0, 0)),
  count: 5,
  interval: 1,
  byweekday: [RRule.TU, RRule.WE]
})
```

Although the `dtstart` is on a Monday, the `byweekday` configuration within the rrule causes it to generate events in an alternating Tuesday and Wednesday pattern. Google Calendar generates events as expected in an alternating Tuesday and Wednesday pattern, with no events on a Monday.

**Conclusion**: There is no scenario where creating a recurring event should have a secondary `dtstart` separate from the one used in the `rrule`.
