---
title: Workshop Introduction
description: Brief rundown of the curriculum for the OMC summer 2021 web application development internship.
category: Workshop
version: 1.0
---

The lectures and exercises seen in the following pages were performed during the OMC internship workshop with the version 2 Senior Design team the week of July 26th-30th, 2021. They are included in this documentation for future students to complete to gain experience with frontend languages and the OMC application's page structure if desired.

Here is the 3-day overview:
- <badge style="margin: 0">Day 1:</badge> Introduced the students to web application development, project mananagement tools, technologies used in the OMC application, and frontend languages such as HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. For the exercise portion of the day, students completed simple frontend exercises to gain hands-on experience with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.
- <badge style="margin: 0">Day 2:</badge> Students were given a quick review on JavaScript and simple warm-up exercises to follow along to, introduced to TypeScript and the differences between TypeScript and JavaScript, briefed on use case diagrams, and introduced to the framework used for the backend of the OMC application (NestJS).
- <badge style="margin: 0">Day 3:</badge> 

The goal of the frontend exercises is to familiarize students with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript all at once through exposure to an online IDE. While many IDEs can work for the exercises, including [CodePen](https://codepen.io/) and even [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/), we will be using [JSFiddle](https://jsfiddle.net/). No downloads or account creation necessary!

<alert type="info">
JSFiddle Note: Students can customize the layout of their screen by going to `Settings > Editor Layout` in the upper right hand corner. Tabs (columns) or Classic layout works best for the exercises. As copying and pasting code from the docs often causes indentation issues in the JSFiddle environment, clicking `Tidy` in the corner of the box resolves formatting issues.
</alert>